Ladies and gentlemen,
please welcome Senior Director of
Product Marketing,
Interactive Media Group, Frank Casanova.
Good morning guys,
thanks for coming to our session.
This year, you know typically Tim Schaaf,
my engineering counterpart
and I kind of join,
we do a session together.
But there's so much new stuff this year.
There's so much that
Tim needed to talk about,
about the architecture of what
was going on in our space.
Because it's grown considerably
bigger than QuickTime.
And there's so much new stuff that
we've been doing on our side around
3G and a bunch of other technologies
that we separated into two sessions.
And Tim's was yesterday and mine is now.
We wanted to go through today a whole
bunch of different things that we're
doing in a space around content creation,
content development.
You know,
what's important to us and what's coming.
And so I'll have a whole bunch
of folks join me on stage,
other presenters and demoers to
kind of get this message across.
This is the second time that we've
come to the Developers Conference kind
of as a QuickTime community.
As you guys may remember,
for about three years or so,
we had a QuickTime live conference
that we held down in LA,
which was pretty much
all things QuickTime.
And last year,
we moved the conference kind of up
into this Developers Conference because
this Developers Conference has taken
on a whole new kind of profile.
It's not just about
API development anymore.
It used to be back in the day a
pretty engineering-centric conference,
but it's grown.
It's evolved.
It's changed a lot,
and we saw an opportunity to leverage
the incredible infrastructure of
WWDC to include our conference,
and we benefited in a lot of ways.
There's 41 different sessions,
a bunch of different labs,
a very diverse audience.
Everybody in this audience comes across
from a wide variety of backgrounds.
And one thing we definitely
heard from last year that people
wanted to see improve or change
was improve the community.
You know,
the QuickTime live community was a very
vibrant and very definite community.
And so,
We've done a lot of changes when I think
the room build outs are finished.
We have,
instead of smaller rooms where people
are packed in and standing room only,
we've increased the size of the rooms.
There's a couple of them
that are pretty large.
And our Quicktime lounge is no longer a
back alleyway with a bumpy couch and a
fake plant that used to be back there.
We actually have a lounge,
so if you're part of this community
you can go over and hang out and meet
other people that are in this space.
There's beverages and various things.
So we've changed a lot of things
to make this conference better.
And we really look forward to the
feedback session later this week for
you guys to give us more feedback
on what you want to see next year.
So what's changed in QuickTime?
In its simplest form, our logo changed.
We got a new logo.
I think this is what maybe our, Rhonda,
our fifth one?
Yeah, fifth one.
A good question for Stump
the Experts later tonight.
How many logos have
the QuickTime guys had?
Well, we were surprised with the rest
of the company when all of a
sudden this new one showed up.
And as we stared at it for a long time,
trying to figure out what was different.
Certainly, the light source.
They changed the angle of attack
for the light that defines our logo.
What else?
The thingy in the middle got wider.
I'm not sure what that thing really is,
but it got wider.
And then, of course,
they removed the hole out
of the center of our logo.
And so,
and I think it's a little bit more jelly,
too.
I think they jellified
it a little bit more.
You know, but it's pretty cool.
I mean, it looks modern, I guess.
As long as we stay in the dock,
that's all that matters, right?
The never-ending battle
of who's in the dock.
So what we really want to talk
about is covering a lot of
ground in this presentation
about what we've done at Apple,
what our partners have done,
what technologies we've been working
on to kind of improve this sense.
And then, of course,
we want to talk about
what we've done at Apple,
what our partners have done to
kind of improve this sense of,
you know,
what we've done to make a media platform,
standards-based media platform.
This slide is expanding
on a regular basis.
This set of technologies and the
way our OS is architected is being
updated seemingly every release.
And certainly the two guys in the middle,
Core Image and Core Video,
which we'll spend some
time talking about,
have added a lot.
And to help me talk about what's
going on and to help explain,
I'd like to introduce Aimee Nugent.
Aimee's on my team, recently promoted to
product line manager.
She is responsible for all the various
core technologies within the OS from
a product marketing standpoint.
I'd like to introduce Aimee and
have her step through this and
do some cool demos for you guys.
Great.
Aimee?
Welcome, good morning.
Thanks for coming out, everybody.
What I'd like to do is just explain
a little bit of what is built into
our OS and try to explain why you
as content professionals really
care and why you benefit from this.
One of our key proof points has been
Core Audio is built into Mac OS X.
When we transitioned from Mac OS to OS X,
we had a great and rare
opportunity to build something
from scratch for modern hardware.
And from that,
we were able to make Core Audio.
And we really have ended up with an
industry-leading platform for audio.
In fact, over 80% of professional
audio market is on the Mac.
And why?
Well, we've built an ultra-low
latency platform,
one of the lowest figures on any OS.
We have support for 24-bit
192 audio and beyond.
In fact, when 192 has started to emerge
as an industry standard,
we didn't need to make
any changes in Core Audio.
It just automatically scaled.
We also don't have any software
restrictions as far as the number
of channels that you can work
with for playback or capture.
And it'll scale just with your hardware.
And with the G5,
we're seeing some massive scalability.
We also have plug-and-play
for audio devices.
So your FireWire and USB,
connect them up, they just work.
And we've really built a robust
developer community around audio units.
We have the plugins into Core Audio that
allow you to do effects with
DSP and virtual instruments.
We have dozens and dozens of developers
who are both hosting and creating.
[Transcript missing]
- Ready to have some fun?
I am.
Rock and roll guitar at
nine o'clock in the morning.
- Let's do it.
- Frank, you owe me.
We get some audio here?
Are we happening, guys?
Are we live in the house?
Yeah.
Is that coming through the mains?
Okay.
So, we're live in the house.
Yeah.
Okay.
Anyway, I'll talk about it while
they work on the problem.
As a musician and a person who
spends an awful lot of time creating
music and working on audio for a lot
of different professional people,
I'm always looking for
applications that really,
really help
really helped me, in terms of sound,
in terms of my ability to
get through to other systems.
And one of the things that I found
using devices and applications
that are designed for core audio
is the sound quality has just
been dramatically improved.
As Amy said,
about 80% of the professional audience
out there uses the Mac as their platform.
Well, you know,
the entire market is really quite huge.
We found through some research
There's about 54% of US households have
somebody playing a musical instrument.
And what's remarkable about
that is that about 32 million
of them are guitar players.
And so, and that's US figures only.
It's about 72 million worldwide.
So this is like a great big market for
the developers to create and really spend
some time going after these applications.
We have sound, we have...
[Transcript missing]
Excuse us one second.
One, two, three, two.
[Transcript missing]
One of the engineers
is sitting right there.
You owe me this.
Yeah.
Okay, switch that back.
- Okay.
Well, don't know what the problem is.
Well, sorry about that.
Hopefully you guys got to see
Guitar Rig in the Steve keynote.
If you didn't,
the webcast is online that you can
check it out at apple.com/quicktime.
What fun!
All right, so if you could take
a look at Guitar Rig,
this whole section through here,
this is just like a virtual
rack of instruments,
of amplifiers,
and what can come with this
thing is really pretty amazing.
In terms of amplification,
we have like a Mesa Boogie,
a Fender Twin, a Marshall Plexi,
a Vox AC30.
In terms of distortion pedals,
we have some of the classics.
The Tube Screamer, I love that name.
Distortion, treble booster.
Under the mod section for modulation,
there's tremolo and phasers, blah, blah,
blah.
Under the filter section,
there's wah-wahs, there's talk-wahs,
all kinds of EQ, volume pedals,
and even things that are a little
silly like this psychedelic delay here.
And all you have to do to make
use of these is just click them
and drag them where you want them.
And then they... Turn on.
And we're still having problems here,
guys.
Okay, so one of the cool things
this application does,
it has its own little tape delay.
So, you know, sometimes I'll get files
from friends of mine.
Let's say Frank Casa Nova sent
me this one.
One, two, three, two, two, three.
Okay, this is just playing.
This is just an MPEG-4 file.
It's a QuickTime file.
And I can choose a sound to work with.
[Transcript missing]
I kind of like that,
but I need it a little bit more modern.
You mind if I goof
with this a little bit?
Okay.
So I'm going to launch GarageBand.
and in GarageBand,
I've taken the concept of that tune,
and I'm going to launch
Native Instruments' guitar
rig as an audio unit.
And all I have to do is click.
[Transcript missing]
and if you're interested in finding
out more about audio at Apple in
the OS as well as in our products,
there is a hands-on lab
tomorrow from 12:00 to 6:00.
Some of our audio
engineers will be there,
and they can help you even from
a content creation standpoint.
So I suggest you check that out
on the second floor tomorrow.
So Frank introduced at the beginning
the idea of we have some new members
of our media architecture in Mac OS X.
You might have seen mention of them in
some of the other sessions prior to now.
And what I'd like to
explain is why do you care?
Why is this important for
content professionals?
[Transcript missing]
From a matching perspective,
we're taking a look at Core Video.
Core Video is really providing a new,
modern architecture to video.
It really enables the pipeline
between QuickTime and OpenGL.
What does that mean?
It's really a hardware-accelerated
pipeline that we can use for
some amazing effects using GL,
or you can pipe it right through to
Core Image for real-time effects.
So why do you care about this?
What does it mean for you?
So let me show you one of my demos
here and kind of walk you through it.
I mean, all these things are
built right into the OS.
And what I have here is a little
demo app called Funhouse that we
just have for internal testing.
And it really helps us test
what the filters are in the OS.
And we have a huge list of
things built into the system.
And they're all,
what's great about Core Image is
that we can take these chains of
effects and stack them together
in a non-destructive way.
So your original content is untouched.
It's there to do whatever it is
you want to do with it later,
as long as you remember these effects.
And they're all responding in real time.
And again, this is all built in the OS.
And it works with video as well.
All in real time,
all leverage on the GPU.
And you can,
the performance of this is just amazing.
What we're working on top
of is a 720p 264 clip,
and I can in real time distort this.
We're doing a bump distortion.
We can do things like...
[Transcript missing]
My dad thanks Aimee for
pronouncing my last name correctly.
This is the Motion interface.
Motion is a brand new application.
It's not released yet.
And it will show you some things
that you can do when you build
a brand new application from the
ground up that takes advantage of
the Mac OS X and the Mac hardware,
including the technology
that Core Video is based on.
So over here, you have a file browser.
And the file browser kind
of mimics the Finder.
You have drives, mounted servers,
anything that you have
in your Finder level,
you have up the top here.
And down below are all the files
that you would find in any folder.
So if you want to take one,
you just import it by dragging
and dropping it from the
file browser into the canvas.
And you just hit Play.
So once you have it start playing,
you can do a bunch of things.
You can scale it down as it plays.
You can grab the little
handle and rotate it.
You can come in and choose to have
a kind of a perspective distortion.
And you can see it's very interactive.
You can just drag this stuff around
and move it around really quickly.
And this is the kind of
interactivity that you can get.
By using what Amy was showing
and just inside of Motion.
Besides the onscreen controls,
over here in the file browser,
it's a tabbed window.
So you can go to the inspector
just by clicking on a tab.
And you have all the sliders and
dials that you would want to do
this by numbers if you wanted to.
Or you could just reset it all.
Besides that, you have a library,
and in the library,
that's where all the goodies are found,
that's where all the fun
stuff to play with are.
You have things like filters,
a lot of the filters, you can see they're
all accelerated again.
So we can come in and we can
choose some like distortions,
and we can choose like black hole here.
[Transcript missing]
But you have a bunch of these filters.
Some are very stylized filters,
like you can come in and say,
"Stylize." This is kind
of one of my favorites.
It just kind of makes this
Doctor Who kind of tunnel-y
slit kind of thing effect.
So you have a lot of these
filters that you can just play
with as the clip plays back,
and you can layer up multiple clips.
But you can also create animations,
and you can create animations
through different ways.
We created this animation.
You can see the little preview up
the top here in the file browser.
It's just a keyframed
animation that we saved off,
and you can bring it back in.
So you can just drag layers
from your projects into the
file browser to save them,
and you can just drag them back into
another project and lay them down,
and then you get the
same animation playback.
So what you can do,
you can actually choose
this little clip here,
and you have a full keyframe
editor that you can open up
and keyframe things as well.
Besides that, you have text tools.
Up the top, you have a tool palette,
a tool bar.
You have hand panning,
and you can zoom in on clips,
and the clip still plays,
and you can zoom in very quickly.
So it's very interactive.
You can choose your text tool.
This might be like a broadcast promo,
so we'll do KPL8.
And now that you have the text on screen,
you can do different things.
You can change the size
very interactively,
the tracking, all the things you might
want to do with text.
You can change the color,
get a nice yellow there.
You can change the font.
It's very interactive on the
font as it dynamically changes
as you scroll through the list.
So that's kind of fun.
And the whole goal was to make
this very interactive and very fun
to play with as a working tool.
Over here,
this little dashboard is a floating
transparent little widget that gives you
all the most common controls you would
have for anything you select on screen.
So I have text selected,
so it gives me all the text controls.
If I have something else selected,
you'll notice then it will
give me different controls.
For instance,
to animate this text right now,
instead of keyframing it,
we can go back into the library and we
can choose something called behaviors.
Behaviors are kind of a
different way of animating things
rather than using keyframes.
They don't set keyframes.
They apply these kind of
natural forces to objects.
So I can choose something
like a basic motion behavior.
And I can come in and choose-- let's see,
we'll come down.
That's not released yet.
Did I say that?
Now I'm going to bring out my guitar.
Let me just get back into this,
and I'll show you some behaviors.
So we'll just load our clip back in.
and our animation,
and we'll start playing.
And we'll choose our text tool.
and go back into our library
and our basic behaviors and
put on a throw behavior.
Now, the throw behavior just lets me
choose which direction using this
dashboard I want to throw it in.
So the more I pull it out,
the faster it throws,
and the less I push it in,
the more I push it in,
the slower it throws.
We can just get it very quickly
going along a line here,
just very smooth.
If I want to make a copy,
I can just option drag this out,
and I have a copy of it.
Same animation in everything.
I can go back to the copy now in the
animation and just change direction if
I wanted to go in a different direction.
So very quickly,
I have this animation of text,
and I can pull this one
over as it animates.
Maybe make it go a little bit slower.
And I can just double click
it and select evening.
News.
Something like this.
As it goes off screen,
it's actually really,
it's great for the demo,
but it's not practical in daily
use where you can actually,
because the text is
going all over the place.
Okay, anyway,
but we have this animation here,
and you can do other animations
with behaviors like different
types of behaviors understand
specifically about text.
For instance, if I want a nice little
highlight on this,
I can come in and just
throw on a highlight here,
and as the text animates
across the screen,
you'll see it gives it a
little sequence of highlight.
Across the screen.
You can also animate the position.
I can come in,
and I can choose a different behavior,
maybe a zoom behavior that
just zooms in the KPL text.
So now the text will
kind of zoom on screen,
and the highlight goes
across evening news.
Besides all these behaviors,
you have a full particle
engine that you can choose.
You have things like smoke,
and we can come in here
and see a little preview.
You can drag it around.
You have things like sparkles.
Anything you would normally find in
a full-blown particle engine would
come with over 140 little presets
that you can play around with,
or you can create your own.
We created this one earlier,
and we can just drag and drop it on.
It gives it a little
nice little glowy line,
and you can see everything
is still very interactive.
I can come to the background still and
move it around as things play on top.
Okay.
The last little bit I wanted to
show you was you can import any
QuickTime file format as well as export,
including MPEG-1, MPEG-2, MPEG-4.
And you can bring in Photoshop documents,
and when you bring in
Photoshop documents,
if they have layers,
it will show you the layers here.
You can import all the layers.
These are our anchors for our newscast,
maybe.
And we can shrink them down.
Now, behaviors don't necessarily
just operate on one layer.
They can operate on multiple layers.
You have sophisticated kind of
simulation behaviors that simulate
gravity and things like that.
And we can just come into our
behaviors in the library again,
and we can choose simulations.
We can try one like, um, attractor.
We'll direct the attractor
on the center anchor,
and when we do that,
the other two are attracted.
Right?
So this is great because
they're not keyframes,
and what that means is I can
actually come in and move her around,
and they'll follow her.
You can do these things very quickly.
We all have people that we work with.
We might want to put a
rappel version on there.
We can do rappels.
You can come in and you can
go full screen and you can
work on this at full screen.
This is an idea of motion and what
you can do when you actually build
an application that takes advantage
of everything the Mac has to offer.
As well, if you're interested in more,
tomorrow at 10.30 there's
a full session on this.
That's motion.
Thank you.
[Transcript missing]
One of the cool things about this
core architecture that we've built in,
it allows us to provide a
predictable and reliable set of
services that let developers,
in this case, you know,
Apple and our applications group,
kind of like play with the notion of
user interface and user experience.
We can kind of rewrite the rules about
how UI is done when you can count on a
set of services and capabilities to be
built in at a very predictable level.
And we're really looking forward
to seeing what happens over
the coming months with some
of these core technologies.
So, what I'm going to do is because of
some of the technical demo errors,
problems we had there, I'm going to blast
through some of my slides.
I'm sure you guys are going
to be really sad about that.
But,
so I'm going to power through this area
because I want to save time for some of
the cool demos that we have coming up.
And what I wanted to do is,
in this section,
just kind of do an update on
standards and where things are
because it's so important to what's
been going on in QuickTime and
driving the incredible growth and
distribution of what's been going on.
We've always supported
standards in QuickTime.
You guys know that.
You can't have a serious
architecture or media architecture
in the world if you don't support
and respect these standards.
And to us, lately,
it's been standards from this part of
the world that's really been driving a
lot of what's been going on in our space
and a lot of the adoption of QuickTime.
A lot of people ask us, you know,
how is MPEG-4 doing?
We do a lot of press interviews,
a lot of analyst interviews.
And I'm going to move
closer to the clicker thing.
There it is.
And you know,
if you do a search on the web,
you can find just hundreds of
companies with thousands of products,
various bits of hardware devices that are
all just capturing and coding in MPEG-4.
It's really taken off in a huge way.
Our own iTunes Music Store, AAC,
our friends up in
Washington State switched over
using AAC in their music store.
I mean, that was sweet.
I mean,
the thing that's kind of interesting is,
you know,
at Apple and the QuickTime team,
we have a cap that's got two logos on it.
In the front, there's a blue Q,
and then we're very proud and we're very,
you know, we're very dedicated to making
sure that QuickTime does well.
But we have to flip that cap around,
and it kind of says, you know,
the ISO logo on the other side.
And that means we want to be, you know,
we're card-carrying members
of the ISO-compliant universe,
and we want to make sure that we invite
as many people to play as is possible.
So while we do compete head-on
with Real Networks and with
Windows Media from Microsoft every
day in a variety of areas,
we also, when we flip our cap around,
invite them, very much so,
to do what we've been
doing with standards.
Because the more people
that play in this space,
the better off it is for everybody.
These guys have been just driving
MPEG-4 adoption in huge ways.
Docomo, KDDI,
certainly these are some of the
earlier guys who have massive
distribution of multimedia-enabled
phones and people using them.
We go to Japan a lot,
and when we work with these
guys in Docomo and KDDI,
the stuff that they're doing and a lot of
the content is created using QuickTime,
actually all of the content
that Docomo creates and all of
the content that KDDI creates
starts off as a QuickTime movie,
saved off as a 3G file,
and distributed over their
networks to these phones.
They're massive users,
and it's not just those guys.
We took this on a street corner.
This is a storefront.
These are all media-enabled phones.
It's absolutely amazing
what's happening overseas.
The good news is it's coming here too.
Part of what you're going to hear
about in just a little bit is how
it is in fact coming here and why
it's going to really matter for us.
A lot of what we've been doing to date,
though,
has been creation of QuickTime files,
and, you know,
they're on a G5 using Final Cut Pro or
on a PC using a PC app,
and that file then moved off to a
server somewhere of someone's design.
And as we've been traveling
the world and talking with
telcos a lot lately in the past,
you know, past couple of years,
and certainly in the last year,
we've been asked routinely
for an N10 solution.
We've been asked constantly, what,
can we buy this whole
thing from you guys?
You have servers, right?
And we're like, yeah.
And you have a streaming
server for the internet.
And we're like, yeah,
I guess if we plug them all
together and change it a little bit,
we could do the same thing
on the wireless internet that
we're doing on a wired internet.
And so what we've started doing,
and very, very recently,
but incredibly successfully,
it's unbelievable how quick
the uptake for our solution
has gone in parts of the world.
We're selling racks of XSERVs right now
into telcos and selcos around the world,
providing solutions for streaming
to this whole new 3G space.
So I'm going to step
through this very quickly.
The part that we're most
familiar with is this,
content creation.
You're going to see a demonstration in
a little bit about Final Cut Pro HD,
you know, editing content in high def and
then saving it out as a 3G file.
And so we're very familiar
with this part of the world.
And we all know that it's
not just our own tools,
but any tool that uses QuickTime,
the suite of APIs that are there,
as we update the version
of QuickTime underneath,
the application above it gets
all of the new capabilities,
all the new features,
and all the new features.
And more importantly,
access to all the new codecs.
So as we add 3GPP and
then 3GPP2 and then later,
you know, H.264,
all of these applications will
automatically expose those capabilities,
which is really,
really cool for content creators.
You don't have to buy new
hardware or buy new software.
And after the content is created,
our delivery solution has been updated,
has been modified to
include our XSERV G5.
This monster device can reflect over
10,000 simultaneous streams to handsets,
over 10,000 simultaneous,
just from one of these devices.
And if you've got stored files,
on-demand files,
around 4,000 or so 3G files
simultaneously streamed.
And what's kind of interesting is
certainly if you have a lot more files,
we have a lot more storage available.
But, you know,
we have a flexible solution.
What's interesting is the software,
like OS X Server,
and the streaming server,
like QuickTime streaming server,
ship on this hardware when
you buy this for free.
And this has presented a pretty
interesting proposition for us,
a value proposition for the
folks that we're talking to.
When we compare our solution with some of
the folks who are also in this industry,
most notably real networks,
who have had the early mover advantage,
they got out there very early,
have done a very interesting job,
we compare our solution.
We can take our XSERV G5
and slide it into a rack,
and with it comes all the software that,
you know, we're talking about, you know,
the hardware that you need.
And the server costs, I don't know,
$4,500 or so.
And that's it.
The same thing done on
the real network side.
You buy a piece of hardware
from HP or Dell for,
you know, $4,500 or so,
and you slide it in a rack.
And then you get to pay real
networks about $45,000 for the
right to use their software.
And so as we've started going to the
different telcos around the world,
and one noticeably,
we're in the Pacific Rim, some country,
talking to some telco,
and we lay this thing out.
The senior vice president, you know,
he's the one who's going
to be talking to us.
And he's going to be talking to us.
And the senior vice president
of the company is like,
okay, so you're telling me that I paid
$4,500 or whatever unit of
denomination for this device,
and there's no software charge.
There's no licensing fee.
I can just use it?
And the answer was yes.
And it was a no-brainer,
and they ordered a rack of XSERVs.
It was just such a beautiful thing
to see QuickTime and the solutions
that we've built helping create
a whole new market for Apple.
We're selling XSERVs into
telcos because of QuickTime.
And that's it.
With that often goes a G5,
a cinema display, and, you know,
Final Cut Pro or some other software
for people to do the creation and
the management of these servers.
It's really working out well for us.
And now that we have
active communications,
trials and tests with over
25 telcos around the world,
and it's just growing, growing fast,
really fast.
So that's working out pretty well.
Now,
we've always been doing content creation.
Of course,
we could always do content playback.
Our client supports 3GPP.
And 3GPP2 without a problem.
We have got the best built-in
support for that anywhere.
And so the folks like Docomo and
KDDI have always recommended to
their subscribers download and
install QuickTime because people
with their phones are grabbing movies
and they email them to people and
they want QuickTime to play it back.
And now companies like Docomo, KDDI,
Sprint here in the U.S., they're
showing up in our download list.
We look at our numbers every single day.
They're showing up in our download list
repeatedly every day in our top 20 or
25 referrers for QuickTime downloads.
That many of their subscribers and
their subscribers' friends are getting
QuickTime to play back these movies.
It's really starting to pick up.
So, what I'd like to do now is
introduce Joseph Linaschke,
who works in our professional group,
professional marketing
applications group,
to do a quick demo of Final Cut Pro HD.
And what we're going to do is
check this cool application out,
and then we're going to use the
output of the work that he's done,
and we're going to push it up to a
server and stream it back to a phone.
So, Joseph.
Thank you, Frank.
All yours, man.
The Final Cut Pro HD -- Thank you.
Final Cut Pro HD is the newest
version of Final Cut Pro,
which was announced and released
earlier this year at the
NAB conference in Las Vegas.
Now the most important new feature
of Final Cut Pro HD is a direct
result of our close working
relationship with Panasonic,
the manufacturer of the very popular
high definition VeriCam camera.
What we can do with Final Cut Pro HD is
actually capture the native
DVC Pro HD content shot on those
VeriCam cameras over FireWire,
that's standard original FireWire,
not even FireWire B,
into your G5 or even onto
your laptop G4 computer.
Not only capture it over FireWire,
but also edit that high
definition content in real time.
Now you might be wondering why are we
up here talking about high definition
non-linear editing in the middle
of a QuickTime delivery session.
Well, regardless of your final output,
your content needs to be created,
and if that content is video,
then the obvious choice
is Final Cut Pro HD.
But why high definition?
That's an awfully big scale to go
from HD all the way down to the phone.
Well think of HD or high definition
as a universal master format for you.
If you shoot and edit in HD,
your choices are unlimited.
You can deliver to high def TV, HDTV.
You can print to film.
You can deliver an
HD projection in an HD theater.
Or in the future,
you'll be able to create
high definition DVDs.
Now from there,
you can scale that down to
standard definition for standard
def broadcast or standard def DVD.
Of course, you can bring it down farther
to MPEG-4 for the web.
Or today, you can finally export that
content onto a 3G phone.
And that's what we're
going to look at today.
So let's take a look at Final Cut Pro.
This is Final Cut Pro 4 HD,
and I have a project that's
partially finished here,
and we're just going to finish it up
and then deliver it to the cell phone.
So here's what I have so far.
We have a project that's
been started here,
but it needs a little bit of work.
So I'm going to do three things to it.
The first will be very simple.
I want to add a transition
between these two shots here.
So to do that, I'll go to my Effects tab,
and as you can see in here,
I have a Video Transitions category.
If I open that up,
I have several categories to choose from:
Dissolves, Wipes, Irises, Maps,
and so on.
And I have in here a QuickTime category.
So let's go ahead and take a
QuickTime push and drag and drop that
directly onto the timeline like so.
Now I can change the duration of that
transition by simply dragging it directly
on the timeline and then play that back.
Just like that.
Now you can see that
happened in real time.
There was no rendering required.
In fact, if I want to make a
change to that transition,
I can open it up into the viewer,
change that from a top
push to a right push,
play it again,
once again without rendering.
So off to a good start here.
Now the next change I'm going
to make is to this pool shot.
You'll notice that the break
happens right on the beat.
But then the shot continues,
not a whole lot else happens,
but the beat repeats.
So what I want to do is have a little
bit of fun with this clip and work with
the time remapping tool to take that
pool cue break and have it happen twice,
both times on the beat.
So let's see what we're going to do.
First thing I'll do is just go ahead
and zoom into this clip a little
bit and open up my my tool set here,
my little mini timeline,
and grab the time
remapping tool from here.
Now once again, if I play through this,
you'll see there's the first beat.
And there's the second beat right there.
Now the first break is
already lined up to the beat,
so I'm going to go ahead and
add a keyframe to lock that in.
And I'll also turn on my time remap
graph so that I can see what's happening,
I can see the changes to my timeline.
I'm going to go ahead and
let that play normally,
just for a little bit.
We'll go ahead and add a keyframe there,
so it's going to lock into that position.
And then if I go forward
to where that last beat is,
which is right about here.
There's that beat.
I'm going to go ahead and grab that
keyframe and adjust the frame of
video that we're actually looking at,
dragging it back in time until
I get to the break again.
So there's the break.
So now I have the break happening twice.
So far so good,
but what I really want is to
have that cue ball go back a
little bit farther back to the
pool cue so he shoots it twice.
So let's go ahead about
halfway in between here,
add another key frame,
and I'll just drag that
back right about there.
All happening in real
time in high definition.
One more thing I want to
add on to here is a title.
Let's go ahead back to the
beginning of the project.
This is a small bumper for San Francisco,
so I want to add a little title
that says San Francisco right here.
There's some built-in titling
tools inside of Final Cut Pro,
but it also ships with a
program called LiveType.
LiveType is an awesome
tool for doing very quick,
very easy animated titles.
Let's go ahead and have a look at that.
I've already exported
this single clip here,
so let's go ahead and
switch over to LiveType.
You'll notice I can even check my
mail in the background here while
working with Final Cut Pro HD.
Let's go ahead into LiveType here
and place a background movie.
There's that Golden Gate Bridge shot,
drop it onto the timeline.
Now I need to add some text,
so I'll just go in here
and type in San Francisco.
Did I spell that right?
San Fran-cisco.
You know, you can type 120 words per
minute until you get up on stage.
Did you know that?
That's the way it works.
Alright, there we go.
San Francisco on there.
I can change the size of
that text if I want to.
I can of course change the font.
Let's go ahead over to my fonts category,
choose any font that I want in here.
I'm going to grab this Bauhaus font,
apply that.
I'll bring the type size
up just a little bit.
I can even go in here and individually
manipulate these characters.
So for example, bring the F over here.
I can drag this over a little
bit to tighten that up.
Now if I want to animate this,
much like in motion
where we have behaviors,
here I have something called effects.
And these effects are pre-done
animations that I can simply
drag and drop onto the timeline.
You'll see we have various
fade effects in here.
[Transcript missing]
and David Cronenberg.
For more information about the
QuickTime and Digital Media project,
visit www.quicktime.com.
This is Frank Casanova,
and I'll see you next time.
. and choose Open in Editor,
which will launch that
project back into LiveType.
I can now go to my Style Tab, Outline,
turn that on,
and let's just give it a nice heavy,
beefy black outline on there.
I'll simply hit Command+S to save,
tab back to Final Cut Pro HD.
It's immediately updated,
and there's the piece
back on the timeline.
Let's go ahead and see what this
would look like in the final piece,
and we'll look at this
in full-screen here.
[Transcript missing]
and that's all there is to it.
So from here I'm ready to
export this out for 3G.
So simply choose File,
Export using QuickTime conversion,
and directly from within
Final Cut Pro I can choose to
export a 3G file and of course
have access to all the options
that I would need for a 3G output.
That file has already been saved on
the desktop and I'd like to bring
Frank back up here to go ahead
and show you how we output that
or stream that to the cell phone.
Thanks a lot guys.
OK.
So we'll stay on this demo machine.
Because what I want to do now is now that
we've looked at how this edits in HD,
and Joseph showed you our export panel,
what's interesting is Final Cut Pro,
like any other QuickTime app,
can access these export controls.
They look exactly the same whether
you're using QuickTime Pro,
Final Cut Pro,
or any application on the Mac or the PC.
And it's very straightforward
and very easy.
And what I want to do now is
now that we have this file,
Can we have this guy go back up, please?
Thanks.
What I want to do now is get
this file off my computer
and get it out onto a server,
for example, in a telco somewhere.
And we have a product.
called QTSS Publisher that
we ship with our server.
We can connect to the server,
which we have set up.
And the file that Joseph--
we kind of pre-baked this,
so we didn't make you sit
through the actual transcode.
This is the file.
And all I need to do-- I mean,
it really is a pretty straightforward
drag and drop operation.
I grab this 3GP file,
drag it into this window.
It moves over to the server.
I can click on this.
Click on this published media file,
and you get a lot of
interesting information.
You know, I can make sure that
I do the right thing.
You get poster frame with this.
You get HTML automatically written.
You can copy this HTML right
out of this screen,
put it on your web page.
It has all the links,
all the right information on how
to actually access this file.
And then if I wanted
to see how it worked,
because when we pushed it up there,
it was automatically
made streaming ready.
It automatically hinted it.
What QuickTime uses are
hint tracks in a movie file.
MPEG-4 employed that because, of course,
they're using QuickTime as
their file format.
I can hit play here,
and there's that file
that Joseph created.
So that's streaming back
to our desktop here.
But now that it's streaming
back to our desktop,
we know that it works.
If we can go back to slides, please.
What do we want to do with this?
Well,
we probably want to take it somewhere
more interesting than a desktop.
We're talking about workflow,
we're talking about
how files are created,
how files are hinted,
how files are moved.
Now, how can they be played back in
the larger scheme of things?
What I'd like to introduce is
David Vernicki from AT&T Wireless to
join me on stage and talk a little bit
about the way that our companies are
benefiting from the development and
the use of standards to actually just
work together very seamlessly because
we both read from the same recipe book.
David, welcome.
Thanks for having me,
and my dad thanks you for
pronouncing my last name correctly,
too.
About three years ago,
I made my first trip over to Asia to view
one of the first live demonstrations of
streaming video on a wireless network.
And naturally, we all came back pretty
excited from that journey.
And I was asked, you know,
what does it take for this to
become reality in North America?
And my response was convergence,
and a convergence of networks, devices,
and standards, I think, are key.
So we started to see
some of that convergence,
and I really think 2004 is the year
of convergence because now we finally
have devices with the capabilities,
both with displays, with memory,
and battery capabilities to
actually render this content.
We have networks that have evolved,
whether they be GSM or CDMA-based
networks that can now deliver
the bandwidth required for this
content to be enabled to the phone.
And we now have standards convergence,
where previously we were
operating in a telco center,
or a desktop internet-centric world.
We've seen the convergence arrive.
And really,
the epitome of that convergence, I think,
is demonstrated in what Apple's
done with their QuickTime tools
and content authoring and creation
capabilities that they've developed,
all based on standards and the diligent
work that Frank and his team have done
in working to make sure that all of the
products allow the content to be created,
delivered,
whether it's by you as a developer,
one of our content partners.
So, as I said, we're working to create a
system that allows users to have
access to all of the content,
whether it's a mobile, a carrier,
or even a consumer,
to take their own personal
content and publish it and make
it available to other users on the
desktop or on the mobile phone.
So what I've done is I've
browsed out to the website that
Frank has posted that content on,
and I'm going to actually stream the
content directly off of the server here.
Can we have this,
the back-load device on the screen?
And of course, the demo gods will
cooperate here with me.
We'll get this to work here.
Hey guys, can we get this camera rig?
So I've browsed out to the site.
There's a link up there to the content.
And as I've connected,
we actually get to see the real thing.
And of course it's cybers.
So it was that easy for Frank to
take the content and publish it,
and for me to browse it on the phone.
Just to be clear,
certainly we could have done this as a,
you know, played it from the phone or,
you know, like stored it on the
phone and played it back,
but this was real-time streaming.
I mean, this is pretty cool because the
only place you could normally see
this up until now is if you got
on a plane and flew for 14 hours,
you know,
somewhere where they serve Asian food.
But now we can hear,
we're starting to actually get a network
that has evolved enough where we can push
content to servers and the bandwidth,
the wireless bandwidth is enough to
actually do this stuff in real time.
This is getting really exciting
to be able to do this right now.
Right here in San Francisco.
So... Yeah,
and this is actually available
nationwide on our network and our
friendly competitors' networks.
Sure.
This device is an upcoming
Nokia Edge-enabled phone.
You've probably seen the
European counterpart to this,
the 6600.
This is the 6620.
This device has the ability to
stream up to 130 kilobits per second.
So, convergence has happened,
and in 2004, it's here.
Cool.
Thanks a lot.
Appreciate you joining us here.
So, one example from one of the
folks that we're working with,
and certainly as we just kind
of rally around standards,
you know, it works out incredibly well.
You don't have to cut deals
because the standard is the deal.
The standard is what makes things work.
And that was all just done
because we both kind of,
you know,
do the right thing at the right time.
So, we showed one example
that was kind of like,
you know,
a make-believe from a professional
content creator doing HD,
exporting out the 3G to the AT&T phone.
But we also have an opportunity...
Where's that clicker thing?
Here it is.
If we could go back to slides real quick.
To take a look at another example,
and David We've worked closely with the
AT&T guys and with Verizon Wireless guys,
they're both kind of friends
of the family and of course,
card-carrying members of
the standards community.
And what I'd like to do is introduce
Doug Busk to join me on stage.
Doug's been a friend of the family
as has Dave for a long time.
Welcome.
Doug Busk: Thanks, Frank.
And so, you know,
like the other one started
from kind of Final Cut Pro,
professional content creation,
we'll take a more kind of
like consumer-oriented content
creation play on this one.
Doug Busk: Excellent.
Well, thanks, Frank.
Well, first of all,
let me say we're very excited to be here.
The timing is perfect because we
launched our video messaging product,
which is a part of our GetFlix
line of products on Friday.
The timing couldn't be
any more impeccable.
Our video messaging product allows
recording of full video and sound
up to 15 seconds or about 200
kilobytes to be sent peer-to-peer,
online and down to mail,
which we're going to
demonstrate in a moment.
So when we looked around
in the playback universe,
there really wasn't much of a question.
We chose 3GPP2 as our standard,
and so we went with QuickTime as
our preferred playback mechanism
on the desktop on PC and Mac.
There really was no issue there.
QuickTime was excellent to work with.
And I think as you'll see,
the QuickTime really gives the product
a wonderfully holistic approach.
So you're able to send from device
to desktop and back with ease
with QuickTime and QuickTime Pro.
So do you want to go and show
off a little bit of the demo?
Let's give it a go, man.
Doug Busk: Okay.
So talk about the demo
gods blessing us here.
I'm going to go ahead and
take a short video of Frank.
Go ahead and stop Frank.
Are you recording?
Doug Busk: Yep, I'm recording.
Hey, everybody.
Mark, you should have played
a little heavier music,
man.
Doug Busk: So I'm going to stop that,
and I'm going to send that
over to both Frank's email and
his phone at the same time.
So let me go ahead and add
those out of my contacts list.
We're going to move right
over here to the computer.
Okay.
Give me just a moment here.
Again,
this is a set of activities that you
would normally have to go pretty far
away from here to actually see happen.
Right.
So right now I'm connecting
up to our 1X RTT network.
It's branded as National Access.
So it's currently sending the message.
This National Access runs
around dial-up speeds,
50 kbps, which shouldn't be confused
with our EVDO network,
which is broadband access,
which we have launching in several
cities currently available in
San Diego and D.C., which is
more like 500 kbps downstream.
There's no lacking of
acronyms in this industry.
Yeah.
Okay, so the message has been sent.
I'm also going to upload this to our
PixPlace website at the same time.
So I'm going to go ahead and
do that while we're waiting
for this to come into mail.
Okay, we're looking for it.
Just thinking.
Okay, so it's coming to the phone
and it came in the mail.
We got it at the exact same time.
How about that?
That's never happened before.
Can you hear me now?
That's what my network
guys are going to say.
They're here, I have to say that.
Okay,
so where do you want to look at it first,
on the computer?
Yeah, let's take a look at it in
Mail Playback to give you an idea
of the power of QuickTime delivery.
This is a video we just took,
uploaded via our video messaging service,
and it's right there in
message and preview thanks to
QuickTime integration into the Mail app.
So should I just go ahead and play?
Yeah, go ahead and play.
So we realize that not everybody is going
to have a video messaging capable phone,
but we hope that people run
out and buy our LG VX7000,
which will be available here on Friday.
So Frank's going to take a look at the,
I'm going to put the 7000
up on the demo stand,
and let's see if we can connect
up and download the video.
So my phone said that I had a message.
Yep.
And...
Where did it go?
Yipes.
Did the right beeping thing.
Right there under message.
On the inbox.
It said message.
These newfangled devices.
So I will... Go ahead and
pop that right in there.
Go pop this... Oh, can we switch over,
guys?
Thank you.
Switch over, guys.
There we go.
I will push the little play button.
and that was delivered simultaneously
to the desktop to mail to anybody
who has QuickTime 6.5 and above.
Now what I'm doing is logging
into our PIX Place website,
which is vzwpix.com.
- Anybody who's gonna go ahead
and ask me for a free phone,
this number is gonna be defunct
about 10 minutes after the show,
so you'll have to come and
approach me separately.
- Damn.
- So we'll just walk into the inbox here,
and again, you'll notice we've got
the QuickTime integrated
right into the website.
It pulls up the player
embedded in Safari,
and we also have the mention on
the side here for anybody who
doesn't happen to have QuickTime,
although we don't believe
that number to be many.
So I can go ahead and copy and move
and organize all of my video messages.
But what's really exciting about what
we're doing with QuickTime is the ability
to create and deliver content downstream
to VZW video messaging customers.
So Frank's going to pull
up a QuickTime edit here.
Okay, so what we have is personal video.
One of the cameras that I showed
earlier from Sanyo is this
really cool MPEG-4 camera.
You may have seen it.
It shoots stills and video,
solid state on SD cards.
And the video that it
captures is a .mp4 file,
and that's what this is.
We capture some content,
and I'll just play
this back for you guys.
You just can't go wrong with kids,
can you?
Yeah,
it's a total sucker punch for a demo.
It really is.
You just gotta do it.
Alright.
So what we want to do is,
Joseph started doing this earlier,
but we're going to actually finish it.
We're going to export this,
move it to 3G.
Now, hopefully all the settings are set
so I don't have to go through it,
but what you can see is we support,
of course, 3GPP for the GSM guys,
3GPP2 for the CDMA 2000 guys,
like Verizon.
And, of course, when I did that,
it reset everything, didn't it?
So I'll go up to 82 and audio.
We want, Alisa, what data rate?
Okay.
We want to use the other
speech codec at this data rate.
Does that work?
Okay.
Good.
So let's just say okay,
and we'll save it as
gobyslide.3g2 on the desktop.
And that was what,
about seven seconds long,
so we're exporting it right now.
and there it is,
and there it is on the desktop.
So now though,
let's send this to his phone.
So people in their homes can very easily,
using these incredibly simple tools,
they're powerful at the same time,
create content and send it out.
So we're finished with this,
and now what I'm going to do is
launch our email client again,
and this time, create a message and send
it to Doug called Fun--oops,
Joseph's right, Fun in the Park.
[Transcript missing]
I haven't had a manicure lately.
And just go ahead and press pause.
So from digital video to
mobile in three steps.
We're very proud of this and
we're looking forward to this
extended out to your world,
your pre-existing content that you have.
I think you can see now this
is excellent for a home user,
but there's a world not too far from
now where you'll be taking your news,
sports, weather, travel, corporate,
marketing content, whatever you have,
and bringing it down with
the power of QuickTime to
VZW video messaging customers.
So we're excited to be here and we look
forward to a great future with you.
your help.
Thanks everybody.
Thanks Doug.
Thanks Frank.
[Transcript missing]
So, with that said, what's up?
What's next?
What are we going to try to do?
Well,
you saw it yesterday in Steve's keynote,
if you were there,
you saw me demonstrate H.264 AVC.
It's a remarkable video codec.
It's one of those things where
you don't get to see a video
codec like this very often.
You don't get an opportunity to
introduce a technology like this,
you know,
but maybe every number of years.
The benefits: incredible quality.
I mean,
this codec has generated quality that
we thought was really kept in the upper
echelons of HD and other really big,
big formats.
Not a codec that's scalable
and available to use across an
entire spectrum of bit rates.
The efficiency of this,
I demonstrated yesterday,
I'll show you guys again today,
is incredible.
You hold a data rate stable,
you hold a data rate constant,
and the frame size and resolution
goes up by like a factor of four.
From, say, today's standard MPEG-4 codec,
which is absolutely incredible.
That's like free.
That's free resolution.
You just re-encode and you're off
with a much higher resolution image.
And a bunch of other capabilities
that I want to just power through
because we're running out of time.
But I wanted to talk about this.
Get this question a lot,
as you might guess,
as we're talking to press and analysts.
What's up with Windows Media 9?
Where is it vis-a-vis H.264?
What about VC9?
How does that relate to
Windows Media 9 and therefore H.264?
Well, lots been going on in
the world of standards.
Certainly the HD-DVD forum has made
some decisions about the codecs
that they're going to support.
MPEG-2, H.264, and VC9 have been ratified
into the HD-DVD spec,
which is kind of interesting.
So certainly H.264 and people using
QuickTime tools will be able to author
content for that next generation set.
The DVD audio guys have selected AAC,
H.E.AAC,
as the audio format of choice for the
next generation second session DVD audio.
playback format.
But Windows Media 9.
I think it's an incredible technology,
I'll be honest with you.
I think it's absolutely remarkable,
but it has two issues.
It's closed, and it's proprietary.
Therefore,
limiting its distribution and use
in some of the professional mediums,
for example, broadcast cable, you know,
the telcos and celcos.
When we first visited Docomo,
they were actually using Windows Media,
and they switched over to MPEG-4.
They felt that was a better and safer
choice for them because it's a standard,
where Windows Media 9 was not.
And if you wanted to
license Windows Media,
you could get a technology license,
no problem.
But patent licenses, big problem.
You couldn't get that from them.
So that was limiting
some of their adoption.
So they made a very interesting
and I think a really smart choice.
They went to the
SMPTE standards committee,
very big and powerful
standards organization,
and proposed Windows Media 9
as an open standard called VC9.
So Windows Media 9
pretty much equals VC9.
VC9 is now a SMPTE standard.
But then an interesting thing happened.
Certainly,
they've been marketing VC9 very
aggressively as an open standard,
and they could all go talk to the people
that normally wouldn't talk to them.
But what hasn't happened with
VC9 yet is the patent stuff,
the stuff that we're very
used to in the MPEG-4 side.
So you know,
there's this group of lawyers, MPEG-LA,
stands for Licensing Authority,
not Los Angeles.
We have other acronyms back in campus.
But insert your own LA acronym.
And these guys are the storefront,
if you will, for MPEG-4.
These are the folks that work with all
of the patent holders in the patent
pool and allow you to walk up and talk
to just one person and get a patent
license that covers you completely.
So enter VC9, you know, an open standard.
Is it possible that Microsoft owns
every single bit of intellectual
property that's in Windows Media?
Is it possible they've invented every
technique and every technology and every
algorithm and every approach to encoding
and decoding that's in Windows Media 9?
We don't know.
Well, we're going to get a look
because MPEG-LA has done
a call for patents on VC9,
which means France Telecom.
They've been around for a while.
Sony, they've got a lot of IP.
All these guys get to go over
and kind of like sit around a
round table and pare down and say,
"I recognize that." You know,
I've seen that before.
And what's going to happen is VC9
is going to have a patent pool.
MPEG-LA is going to manage it.
So while Windows Media 9
licensing is really attractive,
you can get it at a really,
really good price
without patent coverage.
VC9 will have costs associated with it.
We don't know how much the patent pool
hasn't even really started forming yet.
H.264 is off and running.
It's already been deployed
in a number of places.
The Japanese broadcast community
have already selected H.264 as their
technology they're going to use.
We've been ratified into a
bunch of different places.
I'm really eager to see what's
going to happen with VC9.
I mean, the jury's still out.
We'll see,
but it's important to understand
that Windows Media 9 and VC9 are
these very similar today codecs.
How that's going to evolve with
Windows Media 10 just being
introduced and what direction
that's going to go versus VC9.
And the patent questions around
VC9 will be just interesting
things to think about.
So just keep your ears
open when that happens.
In the last couple of minutes,
what I'd like to do is just show
you guys what we've been doing,
though, for a while with this
H.264 AVC technology.
If you're wondering about
the name in a nutshell,
the ITU,
International Telecommunication Union,
these are the folks that
have been famous for H.261,
H.263, and now H.264.
They've done a bunch of
incredible codec work.
And the folks in
ISO MPEG that did MPEG-1,
MPEG-2, MPEG-4, they brought together the
best and brightest of their
respective organizations and
created a joint video team,
or JVT.
This codec, as it's evolved,
has had a number of names, H.26L, JVT,
AVC, H.264.
We think, like today's MPEG codec,
which is called MPEG-4 Part 2,
this codec may end up as MPEG-4 Part 10.
I don't know what
happened to 3 through 9.
Probably the same thing
that happened to MPEG-3.
I don't know.
It's just missing.
But, you know, the name of that will
likely come out as Part 10.
So let me show a couple of
examples of what this codec can do.
And you saw me do something like
this in yesterday's keynote.
This codec in the bottom here,
and what data rate are these, Amy?
One.
Okay, this is a one megabit encoded file.
Both of these are one megabit.
Same piece of content, same data rate,
one megabit.
The bottom right window is
today's MPEG-4 Part 2 codec.
The upper left is H.264,
same piece of content.
So I'm going to play them
both at the same time,
and you're going to see
what they look like.
♪ ♪
[Transcript missing]
Sugar?
Ah.
Oh, you thought I was calling you sugar.
Hey, you're not that rich.
So, it's a great trailer and a really
good comparison of what the two
codecs do and what you get from
an efficiency standpoint with 264.
So let me go back one,
and we talked about scalability
from 3G to HD and beyond.
So I've got like four seconds left.
This is my last demo.
I'll be out of here in no time
to the folks in the house.
Let me play one trailer for you.
We got this trailer just last night.
Actually,
you guys might be the first crowd
it's been shown to outside of a movie
theater where it's been displayed.
This is the new movie,
Phantom of the Opera.
And so let me just play this,
and we'll be off.
This is encoded at about, what, what?
Five megabits.
The longest lead-in I've ever seen.
and David Koehn,
and the team of Mark and Dion.
We have a codec team in engineering
that's just absolutely outstanding,
and they're doing an incredible
job taking the recipe of what's
specified as 264 and implementing it.
It will ship in the next
version of QuickTime,
and I'll tell you, we just can't wait.
So, I want to thank you very much
for coming to our session.
There is a 264 session
at 2 o'clock today.
This was one of the kind of secret
sessions that we couldn't talk about,
so if you want to learn
more about this codec,
at 2 o'clock today we have a
session dedicated to H.264.
Thanks for attending.
We'll be around all week.
Take care, guys.